"Windies' highest run scorer in T20Is, Chris Gayle has been included in the 13-man squad for the one-off T20I against India, marking his return to the international circuit after a 15-month gap. Gayle's last international match was the World T20 final against England in April 2016. The T20I match between India and Windies will be held on July 9."
"Doctors of a medical institute in Jharkhand operated on the right kidney of a patient when the stones were detected in the left one. After the patient's husband pointed out the mistake to the doctors, they assured him of treatment in a private hospital but later asked them to leave. The Urology department's head blamed junior doctors for the mistake."
"Minority Affairs Minister Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi on Monday said that the Centre will organise 'cashless chaupals' for minority communities to educate them about the cashless economy. Naqvi added that the cashless economy chaupals will be held after the ongoing Winter Session of Parliament is over. He claimed that this will make the lives of minorities ""even more convenient"". "
The National Human Rights Commission has issued a notice to the Delhi government over reports of a dead rat in a mid-day meal served in a city-based school. Nine students of the school were taken ill on February 16 after consuming the meal. An FIR was lodged against two NGOs which had supplied the mid-day meals.
"Former British Prime Minister Winston Churchill once called Mahatma Gandhi ""a seditious Middle Temple lawyer, now posing as a fakir... striding half-naked up the steps of the Viceregal Palace."" Churchill was unhappy at Gandhi's participation at the Second Round Table Conference in London in 1931. Churchill even suggested Gandhi should be allowed to die if he goes on hunger strike."
"External Affairs Minister Sushma Swaraj has informed the Parliament that as many as 74 missing defence personnel, including 54 prisoners of war, are believed to be in Pakistani jails. Swaraj added that their release has repeatedly been taken up through diplomatic channels. However, Pakistan has not acknowledged the presence of any Indian prisoner of war in its custody, Swaraj stated."
"Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said Uttar Pradesh must get rid of SCAM - Samajwadi Party, Congress, Akhilesh Yadav, and Mayawati - in the Assembly elections. ""UP made me PM, now I've to repay the debt...Even if I try and help UP from Delhi, if the state government has no intention, the money will go somewhere else,"" he added."
"Security forces in Jammu and Kashmir have killed 102 terrorists till July 12 this year, making it the highest number of killings in the January-July period in seven years. Earlier in 2010, the highest number of 156 militants were killed between January and July, while 77 terrorists were killed during this period in 2016."
"Bajrang Dal and Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) members on Wednesday brandished weapons like pistols and swords while protesting against the Amarnath terror attack. ""If Centre does not avenge Amarnath terror attack within 15 days, Bajrang Dal will have to take law in their hands to protect pilgrims,"" a Bajrang Dal leader said. They also raised anti-Pakistan slogans and burnt effigies. "
"Indian golfer Diksha Dagar won a silver medal in the women's individual golf event at the Deaflympics in Samsun, Turkey. The 16-year-old amateur golfer from Haryana lost to 25-year-old Kaylin Yost of USA in the final round. Diksha is the only Indian golfer (Under-18) to be ranked in the top 500 worldwide."
"Union Minister Uma Bharti has asked Congress Vice-President Rahul Gandhi to check the Ganga cleaning work by 2018, stating if the work is done then he should jump into the Ganga else she will. ""I urge Rahul to not rush to Thailand after the polls. He should see the work is being carried out in four states,"" she added."
"Raveena Tandon's 'Maatr' which released on Friday, ""is successful...in how it approaches rape as it doesn't trivialise the subject,"" wrote Hindustan Times. ""Maatr a drama with too many blows but little depth,"" said India Today. TOI wrote, ""Raveena's sincere as the victim who sullies her hands to get justice."" It was rated 3/5 (TOI), 2/5 (HT) 1.5/5 (India Today)."
"A 30-year-old Bengaluru woman has filed an FIR against an Ola driver, accusing him of molesting her on her way back from office at 2:15 AM on Friday. ""Before I realised, his hands were on my chest...I screamed and told him to stop the car, but he kept driving,"" she said. Police has identified the accused and begun its investigation."
"Late Tamil Nadu CM Jayalalithaa's niece Amrutha has claimed that Sasikala Natarajan never allowed Jayalalithaa to be close to her family. Saying that Sasikala does not have any rights over Jayalalithaa's property, cash, and jewellery, Amrutha added, ""Let it be handed over to the government and this can be utilised for the people of Tamil Nadu."""
"The Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MLAs today said that party chief Lalu Prasad Yadav's son Tejashwi Yadav will not resign as the Bihar Deputy Chief Minister over the CBI raids on Yadav family's properties. Notably, after an FIR was registered against Tejashwi Yadav for acquiring Benami property, the BJP has been demanding to sack him from the Cabinet."
"The Gurugram police station has transformed two rooms into a play area to ensure that children who accompany adults are not affected by their surroundings. ""The play area is meant to provide a friendly environment, which engages them and lets them relax,"" said an official. The same rooms will also double as a crčche for children of police personnel. n"
"A group of locals and Kanwarias allegedly set on fire a motorcycle owned by an unidentified man after it hit their Kanwar procession in Gurugram's Sohna on Thursday. The Kanwarias alleged that three youths on a bike intentionally hit them and escaped soon after. The police, however, maintained that it was a minor accident and are probing the matter. "
"The Kerala Police has arrested Father Basil Kuriyakose, the Principal of Kings David International School, for allegedly subjecting a 10-year-old boy to unnatural sex. The pastor is said to have molested the boy on December 21 night after other hostel inmates had gone for a vacation. The 65-year-old priest was booked under Section 377 of the IPC."
"Actor Shah Rukh Khan has said that he wanted to produce a film featuring actor Akshay Kumar, but the story and other details of the project couldn't be worked out. He added, ""It should've been done a long time back."" Shah Rukh further said it's very good that Salman Khan and Karan Johar are producing an upcoming film starring Akshay. "
The organisers of French disc jockey David Guetta's show have cancelled his concert which was scheduled for Thursday night in Bengaluru. Law and order issues following the molestation incident during New Year's eve have been cited as the reason. The organisers said they hope to reschedule the concert if they get permission from the authorities and the artist.
"A support of 122 MLAs is needed to form the government in the 243-seat Bihar Assembly. Nitish Kumar, who will face the floor test on Friday, has the backing of JD(U)'s 71 MLAs, BJP's 53 MLAs, and other NDA partners' 5 MLAs. Apart from that, two independent MLAs have extended support to the new alliance, taking the total to 131."
"The fishermen community in Mumbai has objected to Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation's plans of reclaiming 300 acres of the bay area at Cuffe Parade to build a recreational park. The Akhil Maharashtra Machhimar Kriti Samiti has stated that the move is likely to affect the livelihood of 20,000 fishermen since the area is used to park around 400 boats. "
"Actress Richa Chadha said that as a nation, India wants 4G and 5G, but doesn't want women to have the same rights as men. Richa added, ""We don't want all communities and castes to have same rights as others."" She further said that if she had been living anywhere else other than India, she would have been more open. "
"A 32-year-old woman lawyer in Mumbai reportedly planned to jump off the 18th floor of an under-construction building and live-stream the suicide on social media. However, she was stopped from doing so in time as the police reached the spot and persuaded her against it. A resident of a nearby apartment had spotted the woman and informed the police."
"As many 217 Maharashtra farmers committed suicide in June, bringing the total farmer suicides in the state over the last six months to 1,327. The Vidarbha region recorded the highest number of suicides in Maharashtra, with 629 farmers committing suicide in the past six months. Notably, the state had announced a complete loan waiver for small farmers on June 11. "
Jammu and Kashmir Human Rights Commission has asked the state to give ?10 lakh within six weeks as compensation to the man who was used as a human shield by Army to avoid stone pelting. The man was tied to a military jeep by Major NL Gogoi on April 9. Gogoi claimed that his act saved at least 12 lives.
"Security has been tightened at the Coimbatore International Airport after a letter with a bomb threat was received, the police said. The letter threatened that a bomb would be planted on the premises if the demands made by the teaching community were not met by the Central and State governments. Vehicle checks have been intensified, the police added. "
"Reacting on the recent political scenario in Tamil Nadu, former Supreme Court judge Markandey Katju wrote in a Facebook post that he would rather be dead than accept a jailbird's puppet as Chief Minister. ""I am no longer a Tamizhan. I refuse to be a member of the people who don't mind living in disgrace and dishonour,"" he added."
"Thane crime branch on Saturday busted a petrol pump racket that was operating across Maharashtra. The racketeers used electronic chips to dispense less fuel than what was displayed on the vending machines. Following arrests of several people involved, including the owners of the petrol pumps, a total of 11 petrol pumps were sealed across the state."
The Kerala High Court on Wednesday said there is no need to interfere with the Centre's ban on sale of cattle for slaughter as it doesn't violate the Constitution. The HC made the statement while hearing a public interest litigation (PIL) which sought to quash the notification on ban of sale of cattle for slaughter.
"As per reports, actor Rajinikanth will be seeking advice about his entry into politics from old friends whose judgement he trusts, including Amitabh Bachchan. Rajinikanth's family is said to be against him joining politics. A source was quoted as saying, ""They (Rajinikanth's family) cite the example of Amitabh Bachchan, who to this day, regrets his sticky stint in politics."""
"Three top professors at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) Delhi resigned over the last six months for better pay packages. ""In last three years, approximately 17 young faculty members have resigned because of poor salary and non-availability of accommodation,"" a faculty member said. Notably, Assistant Professors' existing pay band and grade pay at AIIMS is ?15,900-?39,100."
"UFC welterweight champion Tyron Woodley, who played the role of a wrestler in Salman Khan starrer Sultan, thanked the actor for a ""top notch"" time he had during his stay in India. Salman had earlier wished Woodley for his UFC fight and had posted a video in which Woodley can be seen explaining popularity of Salman to his friends."
"Following pressure from citizens and green activists, the Karnataka government on Thursday abandoned the controversial steel flyover project in Bengaluru, saving at least 800 trees from being cut. The National Green Tribunal had in October 2016 stayed the 6.9-km project which was estimated to cost ?1,761 crore. The tender to construct the flyover had been awarded to construction major L&T."
"Pescara midfielder Sulley Muntari has been banned for one game after he walked off the pitch at Cagliari on Sunday, having been booked for complaining to the referee about racial abuse by the crowd. Serie A's disciplinary committee also said that no action would be taken against Cagliari because only around 10 supporters were involved in abusing Muntari."
"While hearing petitions challenging Aadhaar, the Supreme Court on Tuesday appointed a 9-judge bench to decide whether privacy is a fundamental right or not under the Constitution. While the government has been pushing for Aadhaar citing that it would ensure subsidy schemes reach the targeted, activists claim that it is vulnerable to data breaches and helps government spy on people."
"The government is planning to bring 14 new categories, including acid attack survivors, under the Disability Act, 2016. Currently, it provides benefits to seven categories including blindness, hearing impairment, mental illness and leprosy. The new categories which will be added include muscular dystrophy, cerebral palsy, dwarfism, thalassemia, multiple disabilities (two or more disabilities)."
"Jammu and Kashmir Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti said, ""I have met PM Narendra Modi a few times and I have found that he is open to ideas. He is not authoritative."" Speaking at India Today Conclave, she added, ""Contrary to perception and allegations by some, Modi is not centralised. He wants to make a true federal system in the country."""
"Delhi police today arrested a 34-year-old man who was accused of beating former international powerlifter Anil Sharma in Delhi last week. The accused, identified as Ashwini Naath alias Aashu, told the police that he and the other accused had a heated argument with Sharma after which they attacked him. He confessed that he was unaware of intensity of Sharma's injuries."
"'Moonlight' on Monday won the Best Motion Picture Award in the drama category at the 74th Golden Globe awards. While Casey Affleck won the Best Actor-drama for 'Manchester by the Sea', Isabelle Huppert won Best Actress in the same category for 'Elle'. Viola Davis won Best Supporting Actress for 'Fences' and Aaron Taylor-Johnson won Best Supporting Actor for 'Nocturnal Animals'."
"In a bid to ensure punctuality, Delhi's Chief Secretary MM Kutty has asked all officers working in the Delhi secretariat to report to work by 9:45 am. This comes after Kutty noticed that many officers were coming late to their offices. The newly appointed chief secretary has instructed secretaries of every department to take strict action against habitual late-comers."
"A report by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India has revealed three IITs made wasteful payments amounting to ?18.03 crore in FY 2015-16. IIT-Roorkee spent ?15.06 crore for construction of sewer lines which was delayed by four years, besides paying ?1.33 crore service tax for services which were exempted. IIT-Madras paid ?1.05 crore avoidable penal charges on electricity consumption."
"Mumbai Police will reportedly close the probe into the molestation case against The Viral Fever CEO Arunabh Kumar by this week without filing an FIR. While advocate Rizwan Siddhiqui urged the police thrice to file an FIR in the case, Mumbai Police claimed that they can do so only if any victim comes forward personally and not on social media."
"Gujarat BJP ministers, Bhupendrasinh Chudasama and Atmaram Parmar, have sparked a controversy after they were seen attending an event meant to felicitate exorcists, where they were also seen shaking hands with nearly 100 exorcists. Later, one of the ministers also defended the act by terming it as a gathering of ""worshippers of the divine"" and not of believers of superstition."
"A 27-year-old woman has told police that her in-laws poured petrol on her and set her on fire before succumbing to 90% burn injuries at a Delhi hospital. In a previous statement, the woman had claimed that she had burned herself while cooking. However, the victim's family alleged that she gave the first statement under duress. "
"Blaming a ""small number of individuals"" for recent service disruptions, Uber on Friday said that currently 80% of its drivers who are online for more than six hours a day, make between ?1,500 to ?2,500 net. Uber India president Amit Jain added that the company has been communicating daily with drivers through phone support, text and video messages and in-person."
"BJP President Amit Shah on Sunday addressed a public meeting at Goa International Airport, following which a lawyer filed a complaint terming it a ""gross abuse of power."" Hundreds of people including Goa CM Manohar Parrikar attended the meeting, which was right outside the airport. A congregation of people outside airports is barred by the Directorate General of Civil Aviation."
"Addressing e-rickshaw drivers at an event to announce subsidies, CM Arvind Kejriwal has said that there is a need to reduce the number of diesel and petrol cars and buses to check pollution in Delhi. He announced the government will provide subsidies of ?15,000 and ?30,000 to 6,000 applicants to promote e-rickshaw use for shorter distances and last mile connectivity."
"The driver of a local train in Bihar reportedly went missing for about two hours on Monday to take a shower. The driver, MK Singh, did not return even after an announcement was made on the panel address system. A probe has been ordered into the incident, which took place at Buxar railway station. "
"A video of PM Narendra Modi reaching the White House on Monday shows two guards opening both the back doors of the car. As no one came out of the left door, a user tweeted the video saying ""1. Modi's car arrives 2. Guard salutes 3. Goes to open the door for Mrs Modi 4. NO Mrs Modi ???""."
"Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday said, ""Don't make lynchistan out of Hindustan"" and blamed the BJP-led NDA government in the Lok Sabha for encouraging cow vigilantism. Pointing to incidents of mob violence in Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh, he slammed Prime Minister Narendra Modi for not addressing the killings on 'Mann Ki Baat' programme."
"Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Wednesday tweeted that the people of Israel were eagerly waiting for PM Narendra Modi's historic visit. He also thanked PM Modi for his greetings on the Jewish holiday of Passover on Tuesday. Notably, Israeli President Reuven Rivlin had visited India in November last year, setting the stage for PM Modi's visit this year."
Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal has moved the Delhi High Court in connection with the defamation case filed by Union Finance Minister Arun Jaitley. Arvind Kejriwal has sought details of bank accounts of Arun Jaitley and his family members. The two leaders are involved in a defamation case after Kejriwal accused Jaitley of financial irregularities in Delhi District Cricket Association.
"Hollywood studio Warner Bros. has announced December 13, 2019 as the release date for the sequel to the 2017 film 'Wonder Woman'. It has been reported that Gal Gadot will return as the titular character while the return of Patty Jenkins as the director has not been confirmed yet. Notably, 'Wonder Woman' became the highest-grossing film by a female director. "
"Despite protests by China, Tibetan spiritual leader Dalai Lama on Tuesday arrived in Arunachal Pradesh and was greeted by chanting of prayers, music, and religious flags. The Nobel Laureate will reach Tawang on April 8 for a three-day stay. The visit is opposed by China which considers Arunachal Pradesh to be a part of southernmost Tibet."
"Several consumers are raising concerns on the government's Twitter handles and other platforms about retailers charging Goods and Services Tax on the maximum retail price of the products. There are complaints against both local and online retailers. Notably, the government has clarified on several occasions that MRP is a product's maximum price and charging anything above this is an offence."
"A woman, who fell from the tallest bridge in USA's California while taking a selfie and landed 60 feet below on a trail, is expected to survive, the Placer County Sheriff's office said. The woman suffered several fractured bones and requires surgery. She fell from the 730-feet-tall Foresthill Bridge, the highest in California and among the highest in the US."
"The BJP-led NDA on Monday announced Union Information and Broadcasting Minister M Venkaiah Naidu as its candidate for the upcoming Vice Presidential elections. Naidu will contest against the Congress-led Opposition's candidate Gopalkrishna Gandhi, who is Mahatma Gandhi's grandson. The voting is scheduled for August 5 and the current Vice President Hamid Ansari's term will end on August 10."
Philippine President Rodrigo Duterte on Monday offered self-rule to the country's Muslim minority in an attempt to defeat militants loyal to Islamic State who have besieged the city of Marawi for nearly two months. The government and Muslim insurgent groups have agreed that giving the mainly Catholic nation's Islamic minority self-rule is crucial for ending the lure of violent extremism.
"Akshay Kumar, who is currently babysitting his daughter Nitara while shooting 'Gold', has said his respect for wife Twinkle Khanna has increased. ""I have to confess that minding a little girl is a tough job,"" he added. Akshay further said, ""I don't know how she writes, designs, looks after our children and still manages to stay calm on most days""."
"A Delhi Metro probe has identified three men as suspects who used the open Wi-Fi at Rajiv Chowk station to play porn on an LED screen. The findings have been submitted to Delhi Police. ""Young men are seen using their phones as remote and watching the screen... One of them is also seen recording the entire incident,"" the police said."
National Green Tribunal has given its permission to conduct the seventh edition of 21 Gun Salute International Vintage Car Rally between February 17-19 in Delhi. The tribunal made an exception to its 2014 order banning all vehicles older than 15 years in the national capital following a plea by show organisers that said the event raises funds for spastic children.
"Less than a week after being appointed Chief Superintendent of Bengaluru Central Prison, R Anita was transferred reportedly over her non-cooperation with DIG Roopa's report on special treatment given to AIADMK Amma chief VK Sasikala. Anita who claimed that a senior official had directed her not to share CCTV footage from the jail, later shared an edited copy, reports said."
"The Visva-Bharati University has started a certificate level course to teach Mandarin (the Chinese language) to Indian soldiers which will reportedly help them gather intelligence. As many as 25 Army personnel have enrolled for the course this year. The university has, however, said that the course will introduce them to the centuries-old tie between the two nations."
"Trinamool Congress MP Kalyan Banerjee on Wednesday slammed PM Narendra Modi over demonetisation and the arrest of TMC party leaders, stating, ""Modi will run back to Gujarat like a son of a rat."" Refusing to apologise for his remarks, Banerjee further accused the media of favouring the PM. The BJP has lodged a complaint against him."
"Hotels in Maharashtra will train their staff to spot signs of sex trafficking, including frequent requests for bed linen changes and 'Do not disturb' signs left on room doors for days. A mobile phone app called Rescue Me, which will allow staff to alert police of suspicious behaviour, will be developed. The initiative has been backed by the Maharashtra government."
"Indian pacer Jasprit Bumrah has said that Indian captain Virat Kohli gives him freedom to express himself on the field. ""You bowl according to situations, whether at the death or at the beginning. The aim is to stick to a plan and execute it,"" Bumrah added. Notably, Bumrah's tournament economy rate at the ICC Champions Trophy is 4.47."
"Actor Salman Khan has said that his upcoming film 'Tubelight' won't break the records of SS Rajamouli's 'Baahubali 2'. He added, ""Hindi film-goers lapped up the film despite watching a dubbed version of it."" Salman further said that 'Baahubali 2' got box-office success because of Hindi cine-goers."
"Activist Anna Hazare has urged PM Narendra Modi not to amend the RTI Act, threatening to launch a public protest if it is amended. ""Bringing changes in the RTI Act, which people have got after years of agitations, is like damaging their fundamental right,"" he said. Hazare also opposed the proposed limit of 500 words for an RTI application."
"In a first in Bengaluru, a case of lesbian marriage has been reported wherein a 25-year-old woman tied the knot with her 21-year-old distant relative at a temple in Koramangala. While the parents of the younger one filed a missing complaint initially, police investigation later revealed that the duo was married. Notably, same-sex marriages are not legal in India."
"The Bharatiya Janata Party in Delhi plans to launch a separate cell for young women between the age group of 18 to 25 years for the first time, according to reports. The independent 'Yuvti Prakoshth' (Young Women's Cell) will focus on those females who stay at home and are not politically active due to different reasons, the reports added."
"Iran has appointed its first female CEO to lead its national carrier Iran Air since the airline's inception in 1944. Forty-four-year-old Farzaneh Sharafbani, who also holds a PhD in aerospace engineering, is the first woman to head Iran Air in over 70 years. She was appointed by President Hassan Rouhani's administration, which has chosen women to lead several managerial posts. "
"Farmer leaders of Jewar have said they will start campaigning to convince other farmers to not give their land for the proposed Noida International Airport. Demanding a higher price for their land, the farmers have threatened protests against the government. Reportedly, authorities have been directly purchasing land from farmers, instead of acquiring it through the Land Acquisition Act. "
"Union Minister Sushma Swaraj on Saturday said the government will provide assistance in getting Geeta, the deaf and mute Pakistan-returned girl, married to a groom of her choice. Swaraj added that the marriage would be solemnised by Madhya Pradesh CM Shivraj Singh Chouhan. Geeta had accidentally crossed India-Pakistan border and returned in 2015 after spending 13 years in Pakistan."
"Citing post-mortem reports, the police claimed that the man allegedly lynched to death by Rajasthan government officials for stopping them from clicking women defecating in open died of heart attack. ""There is no such injury mark on the victim's body which proves that he was murdered. The allegation against the accused is yet to be proved,"" the police added."
"Ashish Nehra has shared anecdotes from his early cricketing days with Virender Sehwag, when both of them would go to Delhi's Feroz Shah Kotla stadium on a scooter. ""Viru would come to my house early and wake me up...He would drive to the ground while I would nap, and I would drive back on the return journey.,"" said Nehra."
"The record for the highest last-wicket partnership in Test cricket was set on July 12 by England's James Anderson and Joe Root while facing India in 2014. The duo added 198 runs for the final wicket, as it became the only Test match to feature two century 10th-wicket partnerships. Notably, Anderson's 81-run innings is his Test career's only 50+ score."
"The Maharashtra government has allotted 250 hectares of forest land in Raigad district to the City and Industrial Development Corporation for the development of Navi Mumbai International Airport. The state officials said that the project is site-specific, with no alternative non-forest land available for it. The corporation has reportedly assured to plant thrice the number of trees destroyed."
"After transitioning to biometric attendance, the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) has announced that employees will not receive their salary if they fail to mark attendance through the system. Almost 70,000 of BMC's over 1 lakh employees have already been registered on the new system, reports said. This comes as part of a revamp that also includes changing official duty hours."
"Snooty, the oldest known manatee in the world, passed away on Sunday, a day after celebrating his 69th birthday. His death appeared to be a ""heartbreaking accident"" as Snooty died after getting stuck in a maintenance hatch, South Florida Museum CEO Brynne Anne Besio said. ""We?re all devastated... staff, volunteers and board members considered him a star,"" Besio added. "
"A Meerut-based boy is 6 feet 6 inches tall, making him the world's tallest eight-year-old. Karan Singh set the Guinness World Record for being the tallest and heaviest baby as he was 63 cm tall and weighed 7.8 kg as a newborn. Karan said he doesn't feel embarrassed by his height and hopes to become a basketball player or doctor. n"
"The Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) has directed power distribution companies in Delhi to either generate their own electricity through renewable sources or increase their purchase of green energy from generating companies. Reportedly, DERC will make it compulsory for the companies to buy 100% electricity being generated from the waste-to-energy (WTE) plants set up in the capital. "
"BJP President Amit Shah today said, ""everyone present in the public meeting knows with what objective I called Mahatma Gandhi a baniya,"" defending his statement that Gandhi knew Congress was a tool to fight for freedom. After Congress spokesperson Randeep Surjewala demanded an apology for ""belittling"" Gandhi, Shah added, ""Surjewala has a lot to answer on Mahatma Gandhi's principles."""
"1993 Mumbai serial blasts convict Abu Salem on Monday moved a plea before a Mumbai court seeking temporary bail to get married, reports said. In his application, Salem cited examples of convicts who have been granted bail to get married. The trial court judge has asked the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to file its response to Salem's petition. "
"Congress leader Captain Amarinder Singh will take oath as the Chief Minister of Punjab on March 16, after he led his party to victory in the Punjab elections, winning 77 of 117 seats. Stating that Prime Minister Narendra Modi had talked to him after the election results, Singh said PM Modi promised to help him with the state."
"Chinese ambassador to India Luo Zhaohui on Tuesday said that India-China military standoff in the Sikkim section is ""grave"". There is ""no scope for a compromise"" in the region, Zhaohui asserted. He added that withdrawal of Indian troops from the area is a ""pre-condition for any meaningful dialogue between China and India"" to achieve a peaceful resolution to the conflict."
"Fossils of a complete crocodile, turtles, and bones belonging to at least six different dinosaurs from the Cretaceous Period, 145 to 66 million years ago, have been excavated from a single site in China's Jilin province. The 1.5-metre-long crocodile fossil was well preserved from head to tail, with clear skin, which is quite rare among Cretaceous era findings, scientists said."
"India's biggest prison, Tihar jail, does not have a hangman on its payroll, according to reports. There is no official record of any executioner even though the post has existed in the prison manual ever since its construction in 1957, the report added. Notably, the jail currently has 19 prisoners on death row, which is the highest to date. "
"Following criticism from Opposition for making Aadhaar number mandatory for students to avail mid-day meals, the government has said that the benefits will continue based on alternate means of identification. The schools will have to get the children enrolled under Aadhaar but until a number is assigned, the children will continue to get the benefits, it added."
"Television actor Karan Wahi has slammed the serial Pehredaar Piya Ki, which shows a 9-year-old boy marrying an adult woman, who is said to be his 'bodyguard'. Wahi wrote in a Facebook post, ""Don't sell me stupidity in the name of content which gives TRP because honestly no one is watching this."" He added, ""We can be better than this."""
"Cricket Australia Chief James Sutherland believes the revenue-share model which the body is trying to include in its ongoing pay negotiations with players is ""starving"" cricket's grassroots in the nation. Australian players may go on a strike if the negotiations over a new five-year pay deal for country's international and state cricketers cannot be resolved by the end of June."
"A 12-year-old girl was mowed down by an Army vehicle in south Kashmir's Shopian on Thursday, the police said. ""Aroofa Farooq...was hit and injured by an Army vehicle near her residence this morning,"" an official said. Protests erupted in the area after she succumbed to her injuries after being taken to a hospital."
"Upset over frivolous petitions being filed in the Supreme Court, Chief Justice JS Khehar on Friday imposed a fine of ?10 lakh on a Bihar MLA and ?1 lakh on a Maharashtra professor. ""Look at my white beard. After reading all this I feel tired also. So please,"" he said. Notably, SC has a backlog of over 61,000 cases."
"The National Green Tribunal on Monday announced that throwing garbage at public places will attract a fine of ?10,000. The tribunal said that authorities are under ""statutory"" obligation to ensure that waste is ""collected, transported and disposed"" off so that it does not cause public health hazards. The NGT's order came while hearing a plea on waste management in Delhi."
"Actress Alia Bhatt has said that the film Udta Punjab was not made with the purpose of winning a National Film Award. ""When the film released, it got that appreciation and recognition from the people. It's not that National awards are not prestigious, but it doesn't take away the fact (from) whatever the film has achieved,"" added Alia.n"
"The Delhi Police on Friday told a city court that they cannot de-seal the five-star hotel room where Congress leader Shashi Tharoor's wife Sunanda Pushkar was found dead in 2014. More than three years after the incident, police said they still need time to investigate the case. The hotel claimed a loss of ?50 lakh because the room remained sealed."
"Canadian PM Justin Trudeau was slammed after he explained why he had fought an indigenous politician in a boxing match in 2012. Trudeau recalled in an interview that he decided to fight politician Patrick Brazeau since it was ""the right story to tell"". ""So 'privileged white guy beats up Indian' was the 'right kind of narrative?' Seriously?"", a user tweeted."
"UK retailer Boots has said it is ""truly sorry"" for the way it responded to a campaign calling for it to cut the price of emergency contraception and said it is looking for cheaper alternatives. The announcement came amid calls for boycott. Boots earlier said it wouldn't lower the morning-after pill's price because it didn't want to 'incentivise inappropriate use'."
"A 40-year-old woman was arrested by the Anti Narcotics Cell (ANC) of Mumbai Police on Thursday for selling eighteen packets of ganja near a college in Mumbai's Churchgate Station. ""We are cracking down on peddlers operating near educational institutions as part of our campaign against drugs,"" said the ANC chief.n"
"The Centre on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that it may enact a new law to provide jail terms or fines for heads of NGOs which misappropriate government funds or do not file annual statements. Earlier in April, the Supreme Court had asked the Centre to examine enacting such a law, saying that merely blacklisting NGOs is not sufficient."
